3.1.  Confirmation Claim

   The "cnf" claim is used in the JWT to contain members used to
   identify the proof-of-possession key.  Other members of the "cnf"
   object may be defined because a proof-of-possession key may not be
   the only means of confirming the authenticity of the token.  This is
   analogous to the SAML 2.0 [OASIS.saml-core-2.0-os]
   SubjectConfirmation element in which a number of different subject
   confirmation methods can be included (including proof-of-possession
   key information).

   The set of confirmation members that a JWT must contain to be
   considered valid is context dependent and is outside the scope of
   this specification.  Specific applications of JWTs will require
   implementations to understand and process some confirmation members
   in particular ways.  However, in the absence of such requirements,
   all confirmation members that are not understood by implementations
   MUST be ignored.

   This specification establishes the IANA "JWT Confirmation Methods"
   registry for these members in Section 6.2 and registers the members
   defined by this specification.  Other specifications can register
   other members used for confirmation, including other members for
   conveying proof-of-possession keys using different key
   representations.

   The "cnf" claim value MUST represent only a single proof-of-
   possession key; thus, at most one of the "jwk", "jwe", and "jku" (JWK
   Set URL) confirmation values defined below may be present.  Note that
   if an application needs to represent multiple proof-of-possession
   keys in the same JWT, one way for it to achieve this is to use other
   claim names, in addition to "cnf", to hold the additional proof-of-

   possession key information.  These claims could use the same syntax
   and semantics as the "cnf" claim.  Those claims would be defined by
   applications or other specifications and could be registered in the
   IANA "JSON Web Token Claims" registry [IANA.JWT.Claims].
