3.  Subject Identifiers

   A Subject Identifier is a JSON object [RFC8259] whose contents may be
   used to identify a subject within some context.  An Identifier Format
   is a named definition of a set of information that may be used to
   identify a subject and the rules for encoding that information as a
   Subject Identifier; these rules define the syntax and semantics of
   Subject Identifiers.  A Subject Identifier MUST conform to a specific
   Identifier Format and MUST contain a "format" member whose value is
   the name of that Identifier Format.

   Every Identifier Format MUST have a unique name registered in the
   IANA "Security Event Identifier Formats" registry established in
   Section 8.1 or a Collision-Resistant Name as defined in [RFC7519].
   Identifier Formats that are expected to be used broadly by a variety
   of parties SHOULD be registered in the "Security Event Identifier
   Formats" registry.

   An Identifier Format MAY describe more members than are strictly
   necessary to identify a subject and MAY describe conditions under
   which those members are required, optional, or prohibited.  The
   "format" member is reserved for use as described in this
   specification; Identifier Formats MUST NOT declare any rules
   regarding the "format" member.

   Every member within a Subject Identifier MUST match the rules
   specified for that member by this specification or by a Subject
   Identifier's Identifier Format.  A Subject Identifier MUST NOT
   contain any members prohibited or not described by its Identifier
   Format and MUST contain all members required by its Identifier
   Format.

3.1.  Identifier Formats versus Principal Types

   Identifier Formats define how to encode identifying information for a
   subject.  Unlike Principal Types, they do not define the type or
   nature of the subject itself.  For example, while the Email
   Identifier Format declares that the value of the "email" member is an
   email address, a subject in a security event that is identified by an
   Email Subject Identifier could be an end user who controls that email
   address, the mailbox itself, or anything else that the transmitter
   and receiver both understand to be associated with that email
   address.  Consequently, Subject Identifiers remove ambiguity around
   how a subject is being identified and how to parse an identifying
   structure, but they do not remove ambiguity around how to resolve
   that identifier for a subject.  For example, consider a directory
   management API that allows callers to identify users and groups
   through both opaque unique identifiers and email addresses.  Such an
   API could use Subject Identifiers to disambiguate between which of
   these two types of identifiers is in use.  However, the API would
   have to determine whether the subject is a user or group via some
   other means, such as by querying a database, interpreting other
   parameters in the request, or inferring the type from the API
   contract.

3.2.  Identifier Format Definitions

   The following Identifier Formats are registered in the IANA "Security
   Event Identifier Formats" registry established in Section 8.1.

   Since the Subject Identifier Format conveys semantic information,
   applications SHOULD choose the most specific possible format for the
   identifier in question.  For example, an email address can be
   conveyed using a "mailto:" URI and the URI Identifier Format, but
   since the value is known to be an email address, the application
   should prefer to use the Email Identifier Format instead.

3.2.1.  Account Identifier Format

   The Account Identifier Format identifies a subject using an account
   at a service provider, identified with an "acct" URI as defined in
   [RFC7565].  An account is an arrangement or agreement through which a
   user gets access to a service and gets a unique identity with the
   service provider.  Subject Identifiers in this format MUST contain a
   "uri" member whose value is the "acct" URI for the subject.  The
   "uri" member is REQUIRED and MUST NOT be null or empty.  The Account
   Identifier Format is identified by a value of "account" in the
   "format" member.

   Below is a non-normative example Subject Identifier for the Account
   Identifier Format:

   {
     "format": "account",
     "uri": "acct:example.user@service.example.com"
   }

      Figure 4: Example: Subject Identifier for the Account Identifier
                                   Format

3.2.2.  Email Identifier Format

   The Email Identifier Format identifies a subject using an email
   address.  Subject Identifiers in this format MUST contain an "email"
   member whose value is a string containing the email address of the
   subject, formatted as an "addr-spec" as defined in Section 3.4.1 of
   [RFC5322].  The "email" member is REQUIRED and MUST NOT be null or
   empty.  The value of the "email" member MUST identify a mailbox to
   which email may be delivered, in accordance with [RFC5321].  The
   Email Identifier Format is identified by the name "email".

   Below is a non-normative example Subject Identifier in the Email
   Identifier Format:

   {
     "format": "email",
     "email": "user@example.com"
   }

    Figure 5: Example: Subject Identifier in the Email Identifier Format

3.2.2.1.  Email Canonicalization

   Many email providers will treat multiple email addresses as
   equivalent.  While the domain portion of an email address [RFC5322]
   is consistently treated as case-insensitive per [RFC1034], most
   providers treat the local part of the email address as case-
   insensitive as well and consider "user@example.com",
   "User@example.com", and "USER@example.com" as the same email address.
   Some providers also treat dots (".") as optional; for example,
   "user.name@example.com", "username@example.com",
   "u.s.e.r.name@example.com", and "u.s.e.r.n.a.m.e@example.com" might
   all be treated as equivalent.  This has led users to view these
   strings as equivalent, driving service providers to implement
   proprietary email canonicalization algorithms to ensure that email
   addresses entered by users resolve to the same canonical string.
   Email canonicalization is not standardized, and there is no way for
   the event recipient to determine the mail provider's canonicalization
   method.  Therefore, the recipient SHOULD apply its own
   canonicalization algorithm to incoming events in order to reproduce
   the translation done by the local email system.

3.2.3.  Issuer and Subject Identifier Format

   The Issuer and Subject Identifier Format identifies a subject using a
   pair of "iss" and "sub" members, analogous to how subjects are
   identified using the JWT "iss" and "sub" Claims in OpenID Connect
   [OpenID.Core] ID Tokens.  These members MUST follow the formats of
   the "iss" member and "sub" member defined by [RFC7519], respectively.
   Both the "iss" member and the "sub" member are REQUIRED and MUST NOT
   be null or empty.  The Issuer and Subject Identifier Format is
   identified by the name "iss_sub".

   Below is a non-normative example Subject Identifier in the Issuer and
   Subject Identifier Format:

   {
     "format": "iss_sub",
     "iss": "https://issuer.example.com/",
     "sub": "145234573"
   }

      Figure 6: Example: Subject Identifier in the Issuer and Subject
                             Identifier Format

3.2.4.  Opaque Identifier Format

   The Opaque Identifier Format describes a subject that is identified
   with a string with no semantics asserted beyond its usage as an
   identifier for the subject, such as a Universally Unique Identifier
   (UUID) or hash used as a surrogate identifier for a record in a
   database.  Subject Identifiers in this format MUST contain an "id"
   member whose value is a JSON string containing the opaque string
   identifier for the subject.  The "id" member is REQUIRED and MUST NOT
   be null or empty.  The Opaque Identifier Format is identified by the
   name "opaque".

   Below is a non-normative example Subject Identifier in the Opaque
   Identifier Format:

   {
     "format": "opaque",
     "id": "11112222333344445555"
   }

   Figure 7: Example: Subject Identifier in the Opaque Identifier Format

3.2.5.  Phone Number Identifier Format

   The Phone Number Identifier Format identifies a subject using a
   telephone number.  Subject Identifiers in this format MUST contain a
   "phone_number" member whose value is a string containing the full
   telephone number of the subject, including an international dialing
   prefix, formatted according to E.164 [E164].  The "phone_number"
   member is REQUIRED and MUST NOT be null or empty.  The Phone Number
   Identifier Format is identified by the name "phone_number".

   Below is a non-normative example Subject Identifier in the Phone
   Number Identifier Format:

   {
     "format": "phone_number",
     "phone_number": "+12065550100"
   }

         Figure 8: Example: Subject Identifier in the Phone Number
                             Identifier Format

3.2.6.  Decentralized Identifier (DID) Format

   The Decentralized Identifier (DID) Format identifies a subject using
   a DID URL as defined in [DID].  Subject Identifiers in this format
   MUST contain a "url" member whose value is a DID URL for the DID
   Subject being identified.  The value of the "url" member MUST be a
   valid DID URL and MAY be a bare DID.  The "url" member is REQUIRED
   and MUST NOT be null or empty.  The Decentralized Identifier Format
   is identified by the name "did".

   Below are non-normative example Subject Identifiers for the
   Decentralized Identifier Format:

   {
     "format": "did",
     "url": "did:example:123456"
   }

        Figure 9: Example: Subject Identifier for the Decentralized
          Identifier Format, Identifying a Subject with a Bare DID

   {
     "format": "did",
     "url": "did:example:123456/did/url/path?versionId=1"
   }

        Figure 10: Example: Subject Identifier for the Decentralized
     Identifier Format, Identifying a Subject with a DID URL with Non-
                      empty Path and Query Components

3.2.7.  Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) Format

   The Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) Format identifies a subject
   using a URI as defined in [RFC3986].  This Identifier Format makes no
   assumptions or guarantees with regard to the content, scheme, or
   reachability of the URI within the field.  Subject Identifiers in
   this format MUST contain a "uri" member whose value is a URI for the
   subject being identified.  The "uri" member is REQUIRED and MUST NOT
   be null or empty.  The URI Format is identified by the name "uri".

   Below are non-normative example Subject Identifiers for the URI
   Format:

   {
     "format": "uri",
     "uri": "https://user.example.com/"
   }

         Figure 11: Example: Subject Identifier for the URI Format,
                  Identifying a Subject with a Website URI

   {
     "format": "uri",
     "uri": "urn:uuid:4e851e98-83c4-4743-a5da-150ecb53042f"
   }

         Figure 12: Example: Subject Identifier for the URI Format,
                  Identifying a Subject with a Random URN

3.2.8.  Aliases Identifier Format

   The Aliases Identifier Format describes a subject that is identified
   with a list of different Subject Identifiers.  It is intended for use
   when a variety of identifiers have been shared with the party that
   will be interpreting the Subject Identifier, and it is unknown which
   of those identifiers they will recognize or support.  Subject
   Identifiers in this format MUST contain an "identifiers" member whose
   value is a JSON array containing one or more Subject Identifiers.
   Each Subject Identifier in the array MUST identify the same entity.
   The "identifiers" member is REQUIRED and MUST NOT be null or empty.
   It MAY contain multiple instances of the same Identifier Format
   (e.g., multiple Email Subject Identifiers) but SHOULD NOT contain
   exact duplicates.  This format is identified by the name "aliases".

   "aliases" Subject Identifiers MUST NOT be nested, i.e., the
   "identifiers" member of an "aliases" Subject Identifier MUST NOT
   contain a Subject Identifier in the Aliases Identifier Format.

   Below is a non-normative example Subject Identifier in the Aliases
   Identifier Format:

   {
     "format": "aliases",
     "identifiers": [
       {
         "format": "email",
         "email": "user@example.com"
       },
       {
         "format": "phone_number",
         "phone_number": "+12065550100"
       },
       {
         "format": "email",
         "email": "user+qualifier@example.com"
       }
     ]
   }

      Figure 13: Example: Subject Identifier in the Aliases Identifier
                                   Format
