3.2.2.  Email Identifier Format

   The Email Identifier Format identifies a subject using an email
   address.  Subject Identifiers in this format MUST contain an "email"
   member whose value is a string containing the email address of the
   subject, formatted as an "addr-spec" as defined in Section 3.4.1 of
   [RFC5322].  The "email" member is REQUIRED and MUST NOT be null or
   empty.  The value of the "email" member MUST identify a mailbox to
   which email may be delivered, in accordance with [RFC5321].  The
   Email Identifier Format is identified by the name "email".

   Below is a non-normative example Subject Identifier in the Email
   Identifier Format:

   {
     "format": "email",
     "email": "user@example.com"
   }

    Figure 5: Example: Subject Identifier in the Email Identifier Format

3.2.2.1.  Email Canonicalization

   Many email providers will treat multiple email addresses as
   equivalent.  While the domain portion of an email address [RFC5322]
   is consistently treated as case-insensitive per [RFC1034], most
   providers treat the local part of the email address as case-
   insensitive as well and consider "user@example.com",
   "User@example.com", and "USER@example.com" as the same email address.
   Some providers also treat dots (".") as optional; for example,
   "user.name@example.com", "username@example.com",
   "u.s.e.r.name@example.com", and "u.s.e.r.n.a.m.e@example.com" might
   all be treated as equivalent.  This has led users to view these
   strings as equivalent, driving service providers to implement
   proprietary email canonicalization algorithms to ensure that email
   addresses entered by users resolve to the same canonical string.
   Email canonicalization is not standardized, and there is no way for
   the event recipient to determine the mail provider's canonicalization
   method.  Therefore, the recipient SHOULD apply its own
   canonicalization algorithm to incoming events in order to reproduce
   the translation done by the local email system.
