2.2.  Core SET Claims

   The following claims from [RFC7519] are profiled for use in SETs:

   "iss" (Issuer) Claim
      As defined by Section 4.1.1 of [RFC7519], this claim contains a
      string identifying the service provider publishing the SET (the
      issuer).  In some cases, the issuer of the SET will not be the
      issuer associated with the security subject of the SET.
      Therefore, implementers cannot assume that the issuers are the
      same unless the profiling specification specifies that they are
      for SETs conforming to that profile.  This claim is REQUIRED.

   "iat" (Issued At) Claim
      As defined by Section 4.1.6 of [RFC7519], this claim contains a
      value representing when the SET was issued.  This claim is
      REQUIRED.

   "jti" (JWT ID) Claim
      As defined by Section 4.1.7 of [RFC7519], this claim contains a
      unique identifier for the SET.  The identifier MUST be unique
      within a particular event feed and MAY be used by clients to track
      whether a particular SET has already been received.  This claim is
      REQUIRED.

   "aud" (Audience) Claim
      As defined by Section 4.1.3 of [RFC7519], this claim contains one
      or more audience identifiers for the SET.  This claim is
      RECOMMENDED.

   "sub" (Subject) Claim
      As defined by Section 4.1.2 of [RFC7519], this claim contains a
      StringOrURI value representing the principal that is the subject
      of the SET.  This is usually the entity whose "state" was changed.
      For example:

      *  an IP Address was added to a blacklist;

      *  a URI representing a user resource that was modified; or,

      *  a token identifier (e.g. "jti") for a revoked token.

      If used, the profiling specification MUST define the content and
      format semantics for the value.  This claim is OPTIONAL, as the
      principal for any given profile may already be identified without
      the inclusion of a subject claim.  Note that some SET profiles MAY
      choose to convey event subject information in the event payload
      (either using the "sub" member name or another name), particularly
      if the subject information is relative to issuer information that
      is also conveyed in the event payload, which may be the case for
      some identity SET profiles.

   "exp" (Expiration Time) Claim
      As defined by Section 4.1.4 of [RFC7519], this claim is the time
      after which the JWT MUST NOT be accepted for processing.  In the
      context of a SET, however, this notion does not typically apply,
      since a SET represents something that has already occurred and is
      historical in nature.  Therefore, its use is NOT RECOMMENDED.
      (Also, see Section 4.1 for additional reasons not to use the "exp"
      claim in some SET use cases.)

   The following new claims are defined by this specification:

   "events" (Security Events) Claim
      This claim contains a set of event statements that each provide
      information describing a single logical event that has occurred
      about a security subject (e.g., a state change to the subject).
      Multiple event identifiers with the same value MUST NOT be used.
      The "events" claim MUST NOT be used to express multiple
      independent logical events.

      The value of the "events" claim is a JSON object whose members are
      name/value pairs whose names are URIs identifying the event
      statements being expressed.  Event identifiers SHOULD be stable
      values (e.g., a permanent URL for an event specification).  For
      each name present, the corresponding value MUST be a JSON object.
      The JSON object MAY be an empty object ("{}"), or it MAY be a JSON
      object containing data described by the profiling specification.

   "txn" (Transaction Identifier) Claim
      An OPTIONAL string value that represents a unique transaction
      identifier.  In cases in which multiple related JWTs are issued,
      the transaction identifier claim can be used to correlate these
      related JWTs.  Note that this claim can be used in JWTs that are
      SETs and also in JWTs using non-SET profiles.

   "toe" (Time of Event) Claim
      A value that represents the date and time at which the event
      occurred.  This value is a NumericDate (see Section 2 of
      [RFC7519]).  By omitting this claim, the issuer indicates that
      they are not sharing an event time with the recipient.  (Note that
      in some use cases, the represented time might be approximate;
      statements about the accuracy of this field MAY be made by
      profiling specifications.)  This claim is OPTIONAL.
