5.1. Standard Claims

This specification defines a set of standard Claims.
They can be requested to be returned either in the
UserInfo Response, per Section 5.3.2 ( Successful UserInfo Response ) ,
or in the ID Token, per Section 2 ( ID Token ) .

Member Type Description

sub
string
Subject - Identifier for the End-User at the Issuer.

name
string

End-User's full name in displayable form including all name parts,
possibly including titles and suffixes,
ordered according to the End-User's locale and preferences.

given_name
string

Given name(s) or first name(s) of the End-User.
Note that in some cultures, people can have multiple given names;
all can be present, with the names being separated by space characters.

family_name
string

Surname(s) or last name(s) of the End-User.
Note that in some cultures, people can have multiple family names
or no family name;
all can be present, with the names being separated by space characters.

middle_name
string

Middle name(s) of the End-User.
Note that in some cultures, people can have multiple middle names;
all can be present, with the names being separated by space characters.
Also note that in some cultures, middle names are not used.

nickname
string
Casual name of the End-User that may or may not be the same as the
given_name . For instance, a nickname value of Mike
might be returned alongside a given_name
value of Michael .

preferred_username
string
Shorthand name by which the End-User wishes to be referred to at the RP, such as
janedoe or j.doe .
This value MAY be any valid JSON string including
special characters such as @ ,
/ , or whitespace.
The RP MUST NOT rely upon this value being unique,
as discussed in Section 5.7 ( Claim Stability and Uniqueness ) .

profile
string

URL of the End-User's profile page.
The contents of this Web page SHOULD be about the End-User.

picture
string

URL of the End-User's profile picture.
This URL MUST refer to an image file
(for example, a PNG, JPEG, or GIF image file),
rather than to a Web page containing an image.
Note that this URL SHOULD specifically reference
a profile photo of the End-User
suitable for displaying when describing the End-User,
rather than an arbitrary photo taken by the End-User.

website
string

URL of the End-User's Web page or blog.
This Web page SHOULD contain information published by the End-User
or an organization that the End-User is affiliated with.

email
string

End-User's preferred e-mail address.
Its value MUST conform to the RFC 5322 ( Resnick, P., Ed., "Internet Message Format," October 2008. ) [RFC5322]
addr-spec syntax.
The RP MUST NOT rely upon this value being unique,
as discussed in Section 5.7 ( Claim Stability and Uniqueness ) .

email_verified
boolean

True if the End-User's e-mail address has been verified; otherwise false.
When this Claim Value is true ,
this means that the OP took affirmative steps
to ensure that this e-mail address was controlled by the End-User
at the time the verification was performed.
The means by which an e-mail address is verified is context specific,
and dependent upon the trust framework or contractual agreements
within which the parties are operating.

gender
string
End-User's gender. Values defined by this
specification are female and
male . Other values MAY be used
when neither of the defined values are applicable.

birthdate
string
End-User's birthday, represented as an
ISO 8601-1 ( International Organization for Standardization, "ISO 8601-1:2019/Amd 1:2022. Date and time - Representations for information interchange - Part 1: Basic rules," October 2022. ) [ISO8601-1] YYYY-MM-DD
format. The year MAY be 0000 , indicating that it is omitted.
To represent only the year, YYYY format is allowed. Note that
depending on the underlying platform's date related function, providing just year can
result in varying month and day, so the implementers need to take this factor into account
to correctly process the dates.

zoneinfo
string
String from IANA Time Zone Database [IANA.time-zones] ( IANA, "Time Zone Database," . )
representing the End-User's time zone.
For example, Europe/Paris or
America/Los_Angeles .

locale
string
End-User's locale, represented as a
BCP47 ( Phillips, A., Ed. and M. Davis, Ed., "Tags for Identifying Languages," September 2009. ) [RFC5646] language tag.
This is typically an ISO 639 Alpha-2 ( International Organization for Standardization, "ISO 639:2023. Code for individual languages and language groups," November 2023. ) [ISO639]
language code in
lowercase and an ISO 3166-1 Alpha-2 ( International Organization for Standardization, "ISO 3166-1:2020. Codes for the representation of names of countries and their subdivisions - Part 1: Country codes," August 2020. ) [ISO3166-1]
country code in uppercase, separated by a dash. For example,
en-US or fr-CA .
As a compatibility note, some implementations have used an underscore
as the separator rather than a dash, for example,
en_US ; Relying Parties MAY choose to
accept this locale syntax as well.

phone_number
string

End-User's preferred telephone number. E.164 ( International Telecommunication Union, "E.164: The international public telecommunication numbering plan," 2010. ) [E.164]
is RECOMMENDED as the format of this Claim,
for example, +1 (425) 555-1212
or +56 (2) 687 2400 .
If the phone number contains an extension, it is RECOMMENDED that
the extension be represented using the
RFC 3966 ( Schulzrinne, H., "The tel URI for Telephone Numbers," December 2004. ) [RFC3966] extension syntax,
for example, +1 (604) 555-1234;ext=5678 .

phone_number_verified
boolean

True if the End-User's phone number has been verified; otherwise false.
When this Claim Value is true ,
this means that the OP took affirmative steps
to ensure that this phone number was controlled by the End-User
at the time the verification was performed.
The means by which a phone number is verified is context specific,
and dependent upon the trust framework or contractual agreements
within which the parties are operating.
When true, the phone_number
Claim MUST be in E.164 format
and any extensions MUST be represented in RFC 3966 format.

address
JSON object

End-User's preferred postal address.
The value of the address member is
a JSON [RFC8259] ( Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format," December 2017. ) structure containing some or all of
the members defined in Section 5.1.1 ( Address Claim ) .

updated_at
number

Time the End-User's information was last updated.
Its value is a JSON number representing the number of seconds from
1970-01-01T00:00:00Z as measured in UTC until the date/time.

Table 1: Registered Member Definitions

TOC
5.1.1.
Address Claim

The Address Claim represents a physical mailing address.
Implementations MAY return only a subset of the
fields of an address , depending upon
the information available and the End-User's privacy
preferences. For
example, the country and region might be returned without returning
more fine-grained address information.

Implementations MAY return just the full address
as a single string in the formatted sub-field,
or they MAY return just the individual component
fields using the other sub-fields,
or they MAY return both.
If both variants are returned,
they SHOULD represent the same address,
with the formatted address indicating how the
component fields are combined.

All the address values defined below are represented as JSON strings.

formatted

Full mailing address,
formatted for display or use on a mailing label.
This field MAY contain multiple lines, separated by newlines.
Newlines can be represented either as
a carriage return/line feed pair ("\r\n") or as
a single line feed character ("\n").

street_address

Full street address component,
which MAY include house number, street name,
Post Office Box, and multi-line extended street
address information.
This field MAY contain multiple lines, separated by newlines.
Newlines can be represented either as
a carriage return/line feed pair ("\r\n") or as
a single line feed character ("\n").

locality

City or locality component.

region

State, province,
prefecture, or region component.

postal_code

Zip code or
postal code component.

country

Country name component.

TOC
5.1.2.
Additional Claims

While this specification defines only a small set of Claims as
standard Claims, other Claims MAY be used in conjunction
with the standard Claims.
When using such Claims, it is RECOMMENDED that
collision-resistant names be used for the Claim Names,
as described in the
JSON Web Token (JWT) ( Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token (JWT)," May 2015. ) [JWT] specification.
Alternatively, Private Claim Names can be safely used
when naming conflicts are unlikely to arise,
as described in the JWT specification.
Or, if specific additional Claims will have broad and general applicability,
they can be registered with Registered Claim Names,
per the JWT specification.

TOC
